In this video, we're going
to look at how we can use
Excel's map charts to compare
values across different
geo-spatial regions.
To create a map chart,
you must have some
geographical data.
Countries work really well.
States, provinces, regions can
also work depending on the
country you're working with.
Rowan has a dataset showing
the varying biocapacities
for different countries.
He'd like to be able to
compare these on a world map.
He's going to do this
using a map chart.
Let's start by
selecting our data.
I'm going to select B3 and
C3 and then press Control
Shift Down arrow,
and then scroll up again or
our chart will be created
halfway down the sheet.
Now we're going to come
to our Insert tab,
and in the charts group,
we're going to look for maps.
You will need Office 2019 or
Microsoft 365 to
get this feature.
When we click Maps,
you'll see there's
a filled map and we're going
to click on it to apply.
If there is a problem
and it doesn't
recognize your geographical data,
you will get an error bar
at the top explaining that,
but our own data's absolutely
fine and that's looking great.
Let's make a few
important changes though.
In a moment, we're actually
going to filter the data to
allow us to zoom in on
specific areas in the chart.
But if I were to hide some rows,
I'll just quickly demonstrate.
I'm going to select some rows and
I'm going to right-click and
hide and the chart
immediately minimizes.
We need to be a little
careful if we don't want
our chart to resize when we
change or hide our cells,
we need to specify that.
Let's stop there.
I'm going to click on
to my chart and control
one or just double-click to
open your panel on the right.
We're going to click on
our chart options and
just expand properties
if you need to.
You have a choice to move
and size with cells,
move but don't size with
cells or don't move or size.
It's that third option
we want in this case.
We can also change the way
the actual map
projection is shown.
I'm going to click
somewhere into the data
itself and we're going to
start by looking at
our Series Options.
This is our automatic
map projection,
but there are different styles
of map you can choose from.
Have a look through. I
particularly like the Miller one.
You can also choose
what map area you see.
By default, it will show
you all the regions
covered in your data.
If I only had regions in the US,
it will only show me
regions in the US.
You'll notice that where there
is no data for the region,
it is grayed out.
There are two other
options, however.
I can show only
regions with data,
and what that will do is
hide all the regions
that don't have data.
You can see those
grayed out areas have
disappeared as has
a little piece of
Africa and a little piece of
South America because we don't
have data for those areas.
The last option is World,
and that will always show
the whole world map,
regardless of which
areas have data.
Now for ours, we actually
want to force it to
zoom in on particular areas as
we filter and for that
we're going to need to
use only regions with data.
You can also specify that
you want Map Labels.
If I click Show All,
it tries to squeeze
them all in but
a lot of them are not
fitting properly.
So I would actually recommend
going for Best Fit Only.
Then we can also change
our series color.
This is biocapacity, so I
think shades of green
might be better.
It does it on a sliding scale
or gradient if you like.
We need to specify
our lowest value.
I am going to go for
quite a pale green.
Then my highest value,
I'm going to go for
a more vivid green,
just makes the map look
a bit more exciting.
That's everything I wanted to
do in the formatting panel.
I'm going to close that up.
A couple more tweaks though.
Let's move our legend to
the bottom of the chart.
I'm just going to
come to Legend and
specify bottom and let's give it
a proper chart title I'm
just going to triple
click in there and
type biocapacity,
and that map chart
is looking great.
But now we get to
the exciting bit,
being able to zoom in on
particular areas of the data
by filtering our chart.
Now I'm going to
actually just move
the chart over a little bit to
the right to give me some space.
We're going to actually create
something called a slicer,
which is a very intuitive
way of filtering data.
But in order to use the slicer,
I need to have a table
or a pivot table.
Now we had a look at tables
in the previous course,
but here's a quick reminder.
I'm going to click into my data.
I'm going to come to Insert
and I'm going to choose Table.
It automatically
identifies the table data
provided that your first
row contains your headings.
You can just say, Okay.
Now it has added some
funky formatting.
If you don't like that,
you'll see in the table ribbon,
you can switch it off
altogether or you
can go for something
more to your taste.
But more importantly,
having added our table,
on the table design ribbon,
you will see an option
to insert a slicer,
and that's what we really want.
I'm going to click Insert Slicer.
You can have as many slices
as you have columns or fields.
We want to filter
by region though.
I'm going to take
region and say, Okay.
Now it's popped my
slicer onto my sheet.
I can move that across
just by dragging it
and you can re-size using
the resize handles,
so I'll make that a
little bit smaller
and you can format it as well.
With your slices selected,
you get a slicer ribbon
and a gallery of
slicer styles similar to
our table. I'm going
to go for the blue.
That's creating the slicer.
Lets see how easy it
is to now work with.
I'm going to click
on to Americas.
It has filtered the data
to only show countries in
the Americas and by filtering
the data, I filter my chart.
There's Asia, there's Europe.
If I want to just get
back to my whole world,
I come to the top right hand
corner and clear the filter.
Three really simple
steps to creating
a totally interactive
geo-spatial visualization.
Start by inserting a map chart,
convert your data to a table,
and then insert a slicer.